---
layout: post
comments: true
title: April 2018 Goals
tags: goals
---

## April showers = More writing hours

#FakeApril has begun, and it's brought some rainy days! Time to curl up under my blanket with a cup of chai and get to writing.

### [March Goals Recap](https://yaaminiv.github.io/March-2018-Goals/):

**DNR**:

- I FINISHED THE DNR PAPER (well, sent a clean, full draft to Emma, Brent and Steven)
- Haven't finalized repository contents, supplemental information, or sent a draft to the other co-authors because writing a discussion took way longer than I anticipated (pretty sure my brain hurt for 3 days straight)

**Manchester**:

- [Finished analyzing gonad histology data](https://yaaminiv.github.io/Gonad-Histology-Update4/)
- Completed a [preliminary analysis of my larval survival data](https://yaaminiv.github.io/Larval-Mortality-Analysis/)
- Gave a [talk about my Manchester work at NSA](https://github.com/RobertsLab/project-oyster-oa/blob/master/presentations/Manchester/Venkataraman_NSA2018.pptx)! I think it went well.

**Virginica**:

- I did not set up my analysis pipeline :(

**Metaanalysis**:

- lol
- I'm just going to go ahead and table this until 1) I submit my DNR paper, 2) I submit my Manchester paper, and 3) Pub-a-thon starts

**Other**:

- Reading a paper every day doesn't work for my ability to retain information. I'm more of a "read a fat stack of papers at all once" person. I did go through at least 30-40 papers this month while writing my DNR paper and preparing for my NSA talk!
- Reading and attending NSA 2018 helped me come up with some ideas for next steps!

### April Goals:

**DNR**:

- Send paper to other co-authors for comments
- Combine supplementary information and finalize paper repository
- Submit paper for publication!

**Manchester**:

- Channel my inner Mac and write an entire paper and submit it in one month

**Virginica**:

- My *C. virginica* MBD-Seq data came in! My goal is to set-up the pipeline and begin analyses

**Other**: 

- Write down project ideas for my Ph.D since I now have an NSF GRFP
- Develop our lab's outreach activity for the SEAS Open House
- Create a lesson plan for the #scicomm lesson I'm leading for the Outreach to Diverse Audiences in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences class I'm co-facilitating

{% if page.comments %}

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>

{% endif %}

<script id="dsq-count-scr" src="//the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/count.js" async></script>
