---
layout: post
comments: true
title: March 2026 Goals
tags: goals
---

## [February Goals Recap](https://yaaminiv.github.io/February-2026-Goals/)

**Pilot Green Crab Experiment**:

- Addressed Carolyn's feedback! Waiting on another round of her feedback before I can move onto sending it to Sara and Mikayla

**West Coast Green Crab Experiment**:

- *Finally* [finished cleaning the transcriptome with `blast`](https://yaaminiv.github.io/Green-Crab-Experiment-2023-Part85/)
- Didn't get to start transcriptome annotations

**Biol 195**:

- Ashray got through a good amount of the demographic data analysis. We're tabling it so he can focus on gene expression analysis
- Preliminary `DESeq2` analysis of gene expression at the end of the experiment
- Prelimninary `edgeR` analysis of gene expression at the end of the experiment

**Project Lab**:

- FINISHED ALL MY PREP FOR THIS CLASS THANK GOD

**Other**

- Completed review for Comparative Biology and Physiology A
- Finalized field trip dates for Oceans
- Finished student recruitment!

## March Goals

**Pilot Green Crab Experiment**:

- Address remaining co-author feedback
- Submit to JEB!

**West Coast Green Crab Experiment**:

- Finish transcriptome annotation and final cleaning step
- Share modified count matrix to Ashray for downstream analyses

**Biol 195**:

- Preliminary `DESeq2` analysis of gene expression at the end of the experiment

**Oceans**:

- Weekly course plan
- Prep first 2 weeks of material

**Other**

- Schedule lab meetings for next quarter
- Enroll students in research credits
- Read survey responses to develop code book
- Create tenure tracking document
- Create project tracking document

### Back Burner

I haven't worked on these projects in a while, but they are next on my to-do list. I don't think they need to be in the deep freeze so I guess I gotta turn the back burner on!

**Hawaii Gigas Methylation**:

- Revise `methylKit code`
- Run `bismark` with the new *C. gigas* genome
- Update methods and results
- Revise discussion
- Revise introduction
- Revise abstract

### Deep Freeze

Things that are not immediate enough to be on the backburner, so they're stuck in the deep freeze.

**Coral Transcriptomics**:

These are things I need to do and can probably knock out in a week, but I think they're a lower priority right now for me since there's more momentum on other projects. At the very least, I need to reach out to collaborators and get this going again.

- Revise abstract
- Write discussion
- Write introduction

{% if page.comments %}

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>

{% endif %}

<script id="dsq-count-scr" src="//the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/count.js" async></script>
