---
layout: post
comments: true
title: July 2026 Goals
tags: goals
---

## [May Goals Recap](https://yaaminiv.github.io/May-2026-Goals/)

**Pilot Green Crab Experiment**:

- Submitted the manuscript to JEB and [bioRXiv](https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.05.08.723818)!

**West Coast Green Crab Experiment**:

- Determined that the transcriptome assembly itself needed some work. [Dug into options for revising the transcriptome assembly](https://yaaminiv.github.io/Green-Crab-Experiment-2023-Part91/)
- [Restarted transcriptome assembly](https://yaaminiv.github.io/Green-Crab-Experiment-2023-Part92/)

**MMEP Lab**:

- Worked with Ashray evaluate the use of `DESeq2` vs. `edgeR` for DEG analysis
- Finalized experimental design for Mikaela, Emma, and Clara
- Trained Sasha and Noemi on PCR, restriction digests, and gels

**Other**:

- Completed accessibility for Module 3 and 4 content
- Gave seminars at Stanford and SFSU
- Nancy and I went back and decided to code some different questions instead, since the ones we worked on were very convoluted. We created three new codebooks based on coding the first 25 entries of 3 different questions. I then used our codebooks on the next 50 entries.

## July Goals

**West Coast Green Crab Experiment**:

- Finalize transcriptome assembly parameters based on testing
- Generate and filter revised count matrix
- Remove contaminated sequences from transcriptome
- Annotate transcriptome
- Add metabolomics figures to the draft manuscript
- Write transcriptomic methods

**MMEP Lab**:

- Create lab handbook
- Update SCU website with brief information
- Photos and bios of undergraduate members on website
- Update recruitment information on website
- Set up recirculating seawater system and start experiments
- Finalize citrate synthase and DNA methylation assay protocols

**Hawaii Gigas Methylation**:

- Update `bismark` methods and results
- Revise `methylKit` analysis and update methods and results
- Integrate ATAC-Seq data
- KOG metaanalysis of existing *Crassostrea* methylation data
- Revise discussion

** NSF IOS Grant**

- Revise one-pager
- Talk to a program officer
- Identify the correct NSF program and read the solicitation
- Draft research plan
- Draft objectives and significance
- Draft intellectual merit
- Draft broader impacts

### Deep Freeze

Things that are not immediate enough to be on the backburner, so they're stuck in the deep freeze.

**Coral Transcriptomics**:

These are things I need to do and can probably knock out in a week, but I think they're a lower priority right now for me since there's more momentum on other projects. At the very least, I need to reach out to collaborators and get this going again.

- Revise abstract
- Write discussion
- Write introduction

{% if page.comments %}

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>

{% endif %}

<script id="dsq-count-scr" src="//the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/count.js" async></script>
