---
layout: post
comments: true
title: May 2026 Goals
tags: goals
---

## [April Goals Recap](https://yaaminiv.github.io/April-2026-Goals/)

## April Goals

**Pilot Green Crab Experiment**:

- Finished addressing comments from all co-authors!

**West Coast Green Crab Experiment**:

- Still in [transcriptome annotation hell](https://yaaminiv.github.io/Green-Crab-Experiment-2023-Part89/) because `EnTAP` is literally, as the youth say, "crashing out"

**MMEP Lab**:

- Created project tracking spreadsheet!
- Updated budget spreadsheet!
- Created Code of Conduct!
- Created lab Slack and calendar!
- Worked with Ashray to refine `DESeq2` analysis and repeat methods wiht full dataset
- Worked with Mikaela, Emma, and Clara to conduct background research for their project and develop a research question
- Trained Sasha and Noemi on DNA extractions
- Ordered materials for PCR
- Waiting to hear back on ordering restriction digest and ELISA methylation assay materials

**Other**:

- Drafted codes for questions
- Met with Nancy to come up with consensus codes
- Worked on digital accessibility for all Module 2 content

## May Goals

**Pilot Green Crab Experiment**:

- Submit manuscript to JEB!
- Submit manuscript to `bioRXiv` if all co-authors agree!

**West Coast Green Crab Experiment**:

- Talk to Carolyn to come up with a good approach for finishing transcriptome annotation
- Annotate transcriptome with `EnTAP`
- Start drafting methods section of paper

**MMEP Lab**:

- Create lab handbook
- Update SCU website with brief information
- Photos and bios of undergraduate members on website
- Update recruitment information on website
- Finish student hiring processes for summer
- Work with Ashray to understand temperature x genotype and temperature x time interactions on gene expression
- Finalize experimental design for Mikaela, Emma, and Clara
- Train Sasha and Noemi on PCR, restriction digests, and gels

**Other**:

- Digital accessibility for Module 3 and 4 content
- Give seminars at Stanford and SFSU
- Test codes on next 50 entries

### Back Burner

I haven't worked on these projects in a while, but they are next on my to-do list. I don't think they need to be in the deep freeze so I guess I gotta turn the back burner on!

**Hawaii Gigas Methylation**:

- Revise `methylKit code`
- Run `bismark` with the new *C. gigas* genome
- Update methods and results
- Revise discussion
- Revise introduction
- Revise abstract

### Deep Freeze

Things that are not immediate enough to be on the backburner, so they're stuck in the deep freeze.

**Coral Transcriptomics**:

These are things I need to do and can probably knock out in a week, but I think they're a lower priority right now for me since there's more momentum on other projects. At the very least, I need to reach out to collaborators and get this going again.

- Revise abstract
- Write discussion
- Write introduction

{% if page.comments %}

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>

{% endif %}

<script id="dsq-count-scr" src="//the-responsible-grad-student.disqus.com/count.js" async></script>
